The Joe Rogan experience.
Artificial intelligence is something that people are terrified of as an
existential threat. They think of it as one day,
you're going to turn something on and it's going to be sentient.
And it's going to be able to create other forms of artificial intelligence that
are exponentially more powerful than the one that we created.
And that we'll have unleashed this beast that we cannot control what my
concern is with all this. Yeah, that's my concern. My concern is that this,
this is a,
a slow acceptance of drowning.
That's like a slow or, okay. I'm only up to my knees. Uh, it's fine.
It's just to my waist high. I can still boiling water. Right? Exactly.
Exactly. It seems like this is like.
Have to fight back to reclaim our autonomy and freewill from the
machines. I mean, one clear it's very much the matrix.
It's neat.
And one of my favorite lines is actually when the Oracle says to Neo and don't
worry about the vase and he says, what face? And he knocks it over.
It's just that face. And so it's like,
she's the AI who sees so many moves ahead on the chess board.
She can say something which will cause him to do the thing that verifies the
thing that she predicted what happened. Yeah. That's what AI is doing now,
except it's pointed at our nervous system and figuring out the perfect thing to
dangle in front of our dopamine system and get the thing to happen,
which instead of knocking off devices to be outraged at the other political side
and be fully certain that you're right. Even though it's just a machine,
that's calculating, that's gonna make you, you know, do the thing.
When you're concerned about this.
How much time do you spend thinking about simulation theory, the simulation?
Yeah,
the idea that if not currently one day there'll be a simulation that's
indiscernible from regular reality. And it seems we're on that path.
I don't know if you mess around with VR at all, but, well.
This is the point about, you know, the virtual chat-bots out,
competing on the wheel, for instance, the technology, you know, I mean, that's,
what's happening is that reality is getting more and more virtual because we
interact with a virtual news system. That's all this sort of clickbait economy,
outrage machine.
That's already a virtual pilot political environment that then translates into
real world action then becomes real. And that's the weird.
Go back to 1990,
whatever it was when the internet became mainstream or at least started becoming
mainstream.
And then the small amount of time that it took that 20 plus years to get to
where we are now. And then think what,
what about the virtual world?
And once this becomes something that's has
the same sort of rate of growth that the internet has experienced or that we've
experienced through the internet. I mean,
we we're looking at like 20 years from now being unrecognizable. Yeah.
We're looking at, I mean, it's,
it almost seems like that is what life does the same way bees
create beehives, uh, you know, a, uh,
caterpillar doesn't know what the going on when it gets into that cocoon,
but it's becoming a butterfly. Yeah.
We seem to be a thing that creates
newer and better objects. Correct. More effective. You.
Have to realize AI is not conscious and won't be conscious the way we are.
And so many people, um, think that.
It is consciousness essential. I think so to us.
I don't know, essential in the sense of we're the only ones who have it now.
I don't know that theory.
Well, there might be more things that have consciousness.
Is it essential? I mean, it's the, to the extent that choice exists,
it would exist through some kind of consciousness.
And the choice is choice essential.
It's essential to us as we know it, like as life as we know it.
But my worry is that we're in essential.
W w w we're thinking now, like single celled organisms being like, Hey,
I don't want to gang up with a bunch of other people and become an object that
can walk. I like being a single cell organism. This is a lot of fun.
I mean, I hear you saying, you know,
are we a bootloader for the AI that then runs the levels?
That's the lines perspective. I mean,
I think this is a really dangerous way to think. I mean, we have to yet.
So are we then the species? Yeah. I mean.
But what if the next version of life is better being.
Run by machines that have no values that don't care that don't have choice and
are just maximizing for things that were programmed in by our little miniature
brains anyway.
But they don't cry. They don't commit suicide.
But then consciousness in life dies. That could be the future.
I think this is the last chance to try to snap out of that warden.
In the eyes of the universe that we do that I don't know. It feels important.
How does it feels important? But I'm a mom, I'm a monkey, you know,
the monkeys like I'm staying in this tree, man, you guys are out of your mind.
I mean, this is the weird paradox of being human. Is that again,
we have these lower level emotions. We care about social approval.
We can't not care at the same time. Like I said,
there's this weird proposition here.
We're the only species that if this were to happen to us,
we would have the self-awareness to even know that it was happening, right?
Like we can consent like this two hour interview.
We can conceptualize that this, this thing has happened to us, right?
That we have built this matrix. It's external object,
which has like AI and supercomputers and voted all versions of each of us.
And it has perfectly figured out how to predictably move each of us in this
matrix.
Let me pose this to you. We are what we are now.
Human beings homosapiens in 2020, we are this thing that, uh,
if you believe in evolution, I'm pretty sure you do.
We've evolved over the course of millions of years to become who we are right
now. Should we stop right here? Are we done? No. Right.
We should keep it evolving. What does that look like?
Yeah. What does it look like? If we go ahead, just forget about social media.
What would you like us to be in a thousand years
or a hundred thousand years or 500,000 years?
You certainly wouldn't want us to be what we are right now, right?
No one would know.
This is what visions of star Trek and things like that. We're trying to ask,
right? Like, Hey, let's imagine humans do make it.
And we become the most enlightened we can be.
And we actually somehow make peace with these other, you know, alien tribes.
And we figured out, you know, space travel and all of that. I mean,
actually a good heuristic that I think people can ask is on an enlightened
planet where we did figure this out. What would that have looked like? Isn't.
It always weird that those movies it's, people are just people,
but they're in some weird future, but they haven't really changed that much.
Right? I mean,
which is to say that the fundamental way that we work is just
unchanging, but we are artists, such things as more wise societies,
more sustainable societies, more peaceful or harmonious societies,
but the Janes, you know, well, intimately, biologically.
We have to evolve as well. But our version of that,
like the best version of that is probably the gray aliens. Right? Maybe.
So that's the ultimate future.
I mean, we're going to get into gene editing and becoming more perfect, perfect.
On the sense of, you know, that, but, uh,
we are going to start optimizing for what are the outcomes that we value?
I think the question is how do we actually come up with brand new values that
are wiser than we've ever thought of before that actually are able to transcend
the win, lose games that lead to Omni lose, lose that everyone loses.
If we keep playing the win lose game at greater and greater scales.
I like you have a vested interest in the biological existence of human beings.
I think people are pretty cool. I love being around them.
I enjoy talking to you today.
My fear is that we are we're,
we're a model T right. You know, and there's,
there's no sense in making those things anymore. The brakes are terrible.
They smell like. When you drive them, they don't go very fast.
We need a better version.
You know, the funny thing is God, there's some quote by someone. I think like,
I wish I could remember it.
It's something about how much would be solved if we were at peace with
ourselves. Like if we were able to just be okay with nothing,
like just being okay with living and breathing, I don't mean to be, you know,
playing the woo new age card.
I just genuinely mean how much of our lives is just running away from, you know,
anxiety and discomfort and aversion.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Go download Spotify. Buh-bye.